Shibe Glossary
==============

This glossary contains definitions for common terms related to Dogecoin and cryptocurrency in general.

[A](#A) | [B](#B) | [C](#C) | [D](#D) | [E](#E) | [F](#F) | [G](#G) | [H](#H) | [I](#I) | [J](#J) | [K](#K) | [L](#L) | [M](#M) | [N](#N) | [O](#O) | [P](#P) | [Q](#Q) | [R](#R) | [S](#S) | [T](#T) | [U](#U) | [V](#V) | [W](#W) | [X](#X) | [Y](#Y) | [Z](#Z)

A
-

    >    Address
    >   
    >   A unique identifier used to send and receive cryptocurrency. Addresses are a string of alphanumeric characters that are generated by a user's wallet software.

B
-

    Blockchain
    
    A decentralized public ledger that records all transactions in a cryptocurrency network. The blockchain consists of a series of blocks, each of which contains a group of transactions. Once a block is added to the blockchain, it cannot be altered.

C
-

    Cryptocurrency
    
    A digital or virtual currency that uses cryptography to secure and verify transactions and to control the creation of new units. Cryptocurrencies operate independently of a central bank.
    
    
    Crypto Wallet
    
    A software application that allows users to store, send, and receive cryptocurrencies. Crypto wallets can be either hot (connected to the internet) or cold (offline).

D
-

    Decentralized
    
    A system or network that operates without a central authority or intermediary. Decentralization is a key feature of many cryptocurrencies.

H
-

    Hash Rate
    
    The speed at which a computer can complete a cryptographic operation. Hash rate is used to measure the computing power of a cryptocurrency network.

M
-

    Mining
    
    The process of adding new blocks to the blockchain by solving complex mathematical problems. Miners use specialized hardware and software to compete for the chance to add a new block to the blockchain and earn rewards in the form of new cryptocurrency.

P
-

    Public Key

    A cryptographic code that is used to receive cryptocurrency. A public key is generated by a user's wallet software and is shared with others to receive payments.

S
-

    Satoshi
    
    The smallest unit of Bitcoin, equal to 0.00000001 BTC. The name comes from the pseudonymous creator of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto.

    Smart Contract
    
    A self-executing contract with the terms of the agreement between buyer and seller being directly written into lines of code. Smart contracts allow for the creation of decentralized applications (dApps) on a blockchain.

T
-

    Transaction
    
    A transfer of cryptocurrency from one user to another. Transactions are recorded on the blockchain and are verified by miners before being added to the blockchain.
